---
layout: post
title: Vienna, Salzburg, and Lessons Learned
tags:
- Travel
- Update
---

How fast eighteen days can go by is unbelievable. This trip has been really awesome for me: I've seen new parts of the world and experienced new cultures, got to meet really cool people from all over the globe, and gained important knowledge for future solo travels. But first, Vienna and Salzburg.

I spent yesterday roaming around Vienna and then heading over to Schonbrunn Palace, the old seat of the Austrian Empire. The palace and gardens were impressive -- comparable to Versailles. The audio-guided tour of the inside was a little underwhelming, but I did learn that Schonbrunn played host to a meeting between Kennedy and Kruschev. I'm a little sick of bratwurst and goulash so I got ramen for dinner, which was a nice change of pace (although not as good as Santouka in Boston).

Today I woke up at 6 to catch a 7:07 train to Salzburg. The train, going about 120 miles per hour, took about two and a half hours. Why can't Amtrak be that efficient? Salzburg is beautiful. My first stop was the Mirabelle Gardens, which are famously the location of the Do-Re-Mi scene in The Sound of Music. After seeing the Gardens, I hiked uphill to Salzburg Fortress, which offers stunning views of the medieval and Gothic buildings of the city with mountains in the background. As usual, I'll try to link some photos later, but it's worth looking up the view. 

Now I'm back in Vienna and am about to start packing up for my journey home tomorrow, so I want to take a little time to wrap up, share what I've learned, and list out the highlights of the trip.

First, the highlights. There are a few clear winners here. Auschwitz, although not my most fun day was definitely one well spent for people making their way to Krakow. Also in Krakow, Wawel Castle and the Market Square were both beautiful, and a walking tour or just a stroll around to see the two will be a half-day well spent, One more point for Krakow: the Christmas market was awesome. Really, this goes for all of the places I went. The Christmas markets were a great way to get caught up in the holiday cheer and interact with some locals. All of the Christmas markets that I went to were well worth the trips, and I often found myself going back for another meal or mulled wine. Next, Budapest as a whole was amazing. It was definitely my favorite city on the trip. There are a ton of things to do -- I had four days and don't feel like I exhausted all of my options -- and there is great culture and nightlife. Some specific highlights from Budapest were the Parliament Building, which remains the most stunning building I've ever seen, and Buda Castle with its views out over the river and said Parliament Building. For nightlife, Szimpla was really cool, and I would definitely recommend at least checking out one of the Ruin Bars, if not Szimpla specifically. Finally, Salzburg Fortress offered incredible views out over the city and mountains, and I would destiny rely recommend Salzburg as a day trip for anyone with some time on their hands in Vienna.

Now, on to a few things that I've learned along the way. I will try to make this into bullet points when I get home, but, again, I don't know how to do that on my phone. Bear with me. First, meeting other people can make or break a solo trip. This means that staying in social hostels is critical if you don't want to spend your nights alone at the bar or in bed (and if you do, that's okay, too!). My hostel in Vienna (Wombats' Naschmarkt) was WAY too big. It was impossible to meet people, and it seemed like everyone here was in groups already, including a group of about 40 high school-aged girls, which I found a little weird. On the other hand, my hostels in Krakow and Budapest (Greg and Tom Beer House and Hostel One Basilica, respectively) were awesome. There were tons of solo travellers and people in small groups, and the hostels had great common spaces and organized events like family dinners to help meet people. I made friends with a bunch of other travellers as soon as I arrived, and they became companions in checking out the city and going out bar hopping. This really made Krakow and Budapest into amazing experiences for me, and I'm grateful to have had the opportunity to meet and talk to all kinds of cool people from all over the world. On packing: my backpack was great, but I packed the wrong ratio of clothes. I think that two pairs of pants and as many pairs of socks and underwear as you want days before doing wash is the sweet spot, with half as many shirts as pairs of underwear. Packing this way means that all of your clothes will be dirty at the same time, and you won't have to wash individual items like I did. Lastly, aside from booming popular attractions in advance, basically all other plans can be made last-minute. This means that going forward my approach will probably be to figure out roughly what I want to see and book those sights, and then make sure I get to those places on those days, filling in everything in between by being flexible. Hostels and transportation can be hooked one day in advance or even the day of (maybe except during times like NYE), which means that spending an extra day somewhere is no big deal, and deciding you've seen it all and want to leave early is equally easy.

It's back to school for me now, and many thanks for following along with my trip. I've had a really awesome time and can't wait for the next time I get to do tbis!

